Replace master/slave with primary/replica in MySQL StatefulSet example (#23119)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/run-application/run-replicated-stateful-application.md

This page shows how to run a replicated stateful application using a
[StatefulSet](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) controller.

> The example is a MySQL single-primary topology with multiple replicas running
> asynchronous replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example topology has a single primary host and multiple replicas, using asynchronous
row-based replication.
```
?

Author: I used "server" instead of "host" in some other places. I am kind of split on which is better, but think it should be consistent. I was thinking people say "MySQL server" a lot, but server makes me imagine an actual physical computer, and not just the server process first. We could "service" so it would be "single primary service and multiple replicas"

Author: I added a slightly modified change to the pull request.

[sidecar](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2015/06/the-distributed-system-toolkit-patterns).

The `xtrabackup` sidecar looks at the cloned data files and determines if
it's necessary to initialize MySQL replication on the secondary.
If so, it waits for `mysqld` to be ready and then executes the

> `CHANGE MASTER TO` and `START SLAVE` commands with replication parameters

Reviewer: BTW, using latest MariaDB you can use `START REPLICA` and similar commands rather than the legacy ones (untested BTW). MariaDB should be a drop in swap for MySQL.

Author: Replica instead of secondary seems fine and really accurately describes what is happening. I also did not know that MariaDB has added "START REPLICA" which is good to hear. I can spend some time this evening making changes to the pull request to fix this and correctly use primary as an adjective.

Should I work on the changes this evening, or would it be more prudent to wait for the Naming working group to decide on their official terminology? The only reason I submitted this morning was because last night I was working through the documentation for StatefulSets and realized that the language now seems pretty dated.

Reviewer 2: sftim, Keep in mind that English is a language with the ability (maddening to non-native speakers of English) to turn verbs into nouns, nouns into verbs, and either into adjectives. So strictly speaking, in the context under discussion, replica, primary, secondary, master, slave etc. are **all adjectives that modify some noun**, like "node" or "host". English also has the capability (also maddening to NNSEs) to truncate a noun phrase and treat adjectives as nouns. Thus "primary host" becomes "primary" and "replica host" becomes "replica".

So in terms of clarity and translatability, “the primary MySQL host” is clearer and more accurate than “the MySQL primary”

[sidecar](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2015/06/the-distributed-system-toolkit-patterns).

The `xtrabackup` sidecar looks at the cloned data files and determines if
it's necessary to initialize MySQL replication on the replica.
If so, it waits for `mysqld` to be ready and then executes the
`CHANGE MASTER TO` and `START SLAVE` commands with replication parameters
extracted from the XtraBackup clone files.

> Once a replica begins replication, it remembers its primary MySQL server and

Reviewer: > Once a replica begins replication

It's not wrong but it's a bit clunky. Optionally, rewrite the whole sentence to avoid this.

**I'd be happy to see this merge with the clunk left in, and then worry about the nits later.**

Author: Yeah it is clunky. I'm starting to remember why I prefer writing code to documentation.

Reviewer 2: I do get that, devries. Writing doc can be tricky and appear to be nit-picky. But I am asked to document decisions by Kubernetes as to which terms will replace master/slave, and in what contexts--so that we can get _our_ doc right. So for now my question is:  What sort of objects/processes will the terms **primary** and **replica** apply to, if this pull request is accepted? These terms are technically noun _modifiers_ (adjectives), so I need a noun. Are we talking about processes, databases, files? Looks like files, is that correct? Is this request only for yaml files at this point?

Author: In this case we are talking about database servers. I have been using "server" as the associated noun in these instances.

Reviewer 2: Thank you very much!

Reviewer 3: I'm also happy to see this clunk merge in.
